## Declare and assign separately to avoid masking return values.

### Problematic code in the case of `export`:

```sh
export foo="$(mycmd)"
```

#### Correct code:

```sh
foo="$(mycmd)"
export foo
```

#### Rationale:

In the original code, the return value of `mycmd` is ignored, and `export` will instead always return true. This may prevent conditionals, `set -e` and traps from working correctly.

When first marked for export and assigned separately, the return value of the assignment will be that of `mycmd`. This avoids the problem.

Note that ShellCheck does not warn about masking of local read-only variables, such as `local -r foo=$(cmd)`, even though this also masks the return value. This is because the alternative `local foo; foo=$(cmd); local -r foo` is repetitive and cumbersome. To see warnings for this and many other additional cases of suppressed exit codes, enable `check-extra-masked-returns`.

#### Exceptions:

If you intend to ignore the return value of an assignment, you can either [[ignore]] this warning or use

```sh
foo=$(mycmd) || true
export foo
```

Shellcheck does not warn about `export foo=bar` because `bar` is a literal and not a command substitution with an independent return value. 

### Problematic code in the case of `local`:

```sh
local foo="$(mycmd)"
```

#### Correct code:

```sh
local foo
foo=$(mycmd)
```

#### Rationale

The exit status of the command is overridden by the exit status of the creation of the local variable. For example:

```bash
$ f() { local foo=$(false) && echo "silent error happened"; }; f
silent error happened
$ f() { local foo; foo=$(false) && echo "silent error happened"; }; f
```

### Problematic code in the case of `readonly`:

```sh
readonly foo="$(mycmd)"
```

#### Correct code:

```sh
foo="$(mycmd)"
readonly foo
```

## Word splitting and quoting issue with dash, maybe others

A serious quoting problem with dash is another reason to declare and assign separately. Dash is the [default, `/bin/sh` shell on Ubuntu](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DashAsBinSh). More specifically, dash version 0.5.8-2.10 and others cannot run these two examples:
```sh
f(){ local e=$1; }
f "1 2"

export g=$(printf '%s' "foo 2")
``` 
While this runs fine in other shells, [dash doesn't treat any of these as assignments](http://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashPitfalls#local_var.3D.24.28cmd.29) and fails both like this:
```
local: 2: bad variable name
export: 2: bad variable name
```
The direct workaround to this bug is to quote the right-hand-side of the assignment. Separating declaraction and assignment also makes this runs fine in any shell.

(A rule to catch this problem is in the works at [#1556](https://github.com/koalaman/shellcheck/issues/1556)).